320  Pappus of Alexandria, Greek philosopher, observes an eclipse of the Sun and writes a commentary on ''The Great Astronomer'' (''Almagest'').
614  King Chlothar II promulgates the Edict of Paris (''Edictum Chlotacharii''), a sort of Frankish Magna Carta that defend the rights of the Franks|Frankish nobles while it Antisemitism|excludes Jews from all civil employment in the Francia|Frankish Kingdom.
629  Dagobert I is crowned King of the Franks.
1648  Boston Shoemakers form first American Trade union|labor organization.
1775  African-American poet Phillis Wheatley is freed from slavery.
1797  Treaty of Campo Formio is signed between France and Austria
1851  Herman Melville's ''Moby-Dick'' is first published as ''The Whale'' by Richard Bentley (publisher)|Richard Bentley of London.
1867  United States Alaska Purchase|takes possession of Alaska after purchasing it from Russian Empire|Russia for $7.2&nbsp;million. Celebrated annually in the state as Alaska Day.
1898  The United States takes possession of Puerto Rico from Spain.
1914  The Schoenstatt Movement is founded in German Empire|Germany.
1921  The Crimean Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic is formed as part of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic.
1922  The British Broadcasting Company (later Corporation) <!-- Not 'Corporation' yet ! --> is founded by a consortium, to establish a nationwide network of radio transmitters to provide a national broadcasting service.
1945  The Soviet Union|USSR's nuclear program receives plans for the United States Nuclear weapon|plutonium bomb from Klaus Fuchs at the Los Alamos National Laboratory.
1945    A group of the Venezuelan Armed Forces, led by Mario Vargas, Marcos Pérez Jiménez and Carlos Delgado Chalbaud, stages 1945 Venezuelan coup d'état|a coup d'état against president Isaías Medina Angarita, who is overthrown by the end of the day.
1945    Argentina|Argentine military officer and politician Juan Perón marries actress Eva Perón|Eva Duarte.
1951  The Studio for Electronic Music (WDR)|Studio for Electronic Music was established at the West German Broadcasting facility in Cologne, Germany, making the first modern music studio.
1954  Texas Instruments announces the first transistor radio.
1963  Félicette, a black and white female Parisian stray cat becomes the first cat launched into space.
1967  The Soviet Union|Soviet probe Venera 4 reaches Venus and becomes the first spacecraft to measure the atmosphere of another planet.
1979  The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) begins allowing people to have Satellite_television|home satellite earth stations without a federal government license.
1991  The Supreme Council of Azerbaijan adopts a declaration of independence from the Soviet Union.
2003  Bolivian gas conflict: Bolivian President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada, is forced to resign and leave Bolivia.
