1582  Because of the adoption of the Gregorian calendar this day does not exist in this year in Italy, Poland, Portugal and Spain.
1586  Mary, Queen of Scots, goes on trial for conspiracy against Elizabeth I of England.
1656  Massachusetts enacts the first punitive legislation against the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). The marriage of church-and-state in Puritanism makes them regard the Quakers as spiritually apostate and politically subversive.
1773  The first recorded Ministry (government department)|Ministry of Education, the Commission of National Education, is formed in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.
1808  The Republic of Ragusa is annexed by France.
1843  Irish nationalist Daniel O'Connell arrested by British on charges of criminal conspiracy.
1884  American inventor George Eastman receives a U.S. Government patent on his new paper-strip photographic film.
1888  Louis Le Prince films first motion picture: ''Roundhay Garden Scene''.
1908  The Chicago Cubs defeat the Detroit Tigers, 2–0, clinching the World Series; this would be their last until clinching the 2016 World Series.
1910  English aviator Claude Grahame-White lands his Farman Aircraft biplane on Executive Avenue near the White House in Washington, D.C.
1920  Part of Pechengsky District|Petsamo Province is ceded by the Soviet Union to Finland.
1926  The children's literature|children's book ''Winnie-the-Pooh'', by A. A. Milne, is first published.
1947  Captain Chuck Yeager of the United States Air Force flies a Bell X-1 rocket-powered experimental aircraft, the ''Glamorous Glennis'', faster than the speed of sound at Mach 1.06 (700 miles per hour (1,100&nbsp;km/h; 610 kn) over the high desert of Southern California and becomes the first pilot and the first airplane to do so in level flight.
1949  Eleven leaders of the American Communist Party are convicted, after a nine-month trial in a Federal District Court, of conspiring to advocate the violent overthrow of the U.S. Federal Government.
1956  Dr. B. R. Ambedkar, the Indian Dalit|Untouchable caste leader, converts to Buddhism along with 385,000 of his followers (see Neo-Buddhism).
1957  Queen Elizabeth II becomes the first Monarchy in Canada|Canadian monarch to open up an annual session of the Parliament of Canada|Canadian Parliament, presenting her Speech from the throne in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
1958  The District of Columbia's Bar Association votes to accept African-Americans as member attorney at law|attorneys.
1962  The Cuban Missile Crisis begins: A U.S. Air Force Lockheed U-2|U-2 reconnaissance plane and its pilot (aeronautics)|pilot flies over the island of Cuba and takes photographs of Soviet SS-4 Sandal missiles being installed and erected in Cuba.
1964  Martin Luther King Jr. received the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolence.
1964    Leonid Brezhnev becomes the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and thereby, along with his allies, such as Alexei Kosygin, the leader of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), ousting the former monolithic leader Nikita Khrushchev, and sending him into retirement as a nonperson in the USSR.
1966  The city of Montreal begins the operation of its underground Montreal Metro rapid transit system.
1968    Apollo program: The first live TV broadcasting|broadcast by American astronauts in Low Earth orbit|orbit performed by the Apollo 7 crew.
1968    Jim Hines of the United States of America becomes the first man ever to break the so-called \"ten-second barrier\" in the 100 metres|100-meter sprint in the Summer Olympic Games held in Mexico City with a time of 9.95 seconds.
1969  The United Kingdom introduces the Fifty pence (British coin)|British fifty-pence coin, which replaces, over the following years, the British ten-shilling note, in anticipation of the Decimal Day|decimalization of the British currency in 1971, and the abolition of the shilling as a unit of currency anywhere in the world.
1979  The first Gay Rights March on Washington, D.C., the National March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights, demands \"an end to all social, economic, judicial, and legal oppression of lesbian and gay people\", and draws approximately 100,000 people.
1981  Citing official misconduct in the investigation and trial, Amnesty International charges the U.S. Federal Government with holding Richard Marshall of the American Indian Movement as a political prisoner.
1994  The Palestinian leader, Yasser Arafat, The Prime Minister of Israel, Yitzhak Rabin, and the Foreign Minister of Israel, Shimon Peres, receive the Nobel Peace Prize for their role in the establishment of the Oslo Accords and the framing of the future Palestinian Self Government.
2012  Felix Baumgartner successfully jumped to Earth from a helium balloon in the stratosphere in the Red Bull Stratos project.
2014    Utah State University receives a bomb threat against feminist media critic Anita Sarkeesian, who was to give a lecture the next day.
