937  Ten Kingdoms: Li Bian usurps the throne and deposes Emperor Yang Pu. The Wu (Ten Kingdoms)|Wu State is replaced by Li (now called \"Xu Zhigao\"), who becomes the first ruler of Southern Tang.
1202  Fourth Crusade: Despite letters from Pope Innocent III forbidding it and threatening excommunication, Catholic crusaders Siege of Zara|begin a siege of Zara (now Zadar|Zadar, Croatia).
1766  The last colonial governor of New Jersey, William Franklin, signs the charter of Queen's College (later renamed Rutgers University).
1775  The United States Marine Corps is United States Marine Corps birthday ball|founded at Tun Tavern in Philadelphia by Samuel Nicholas.
1793  A Goddess of Reason is proclaimed by the French Convention at the suggestion of Pierre Gaspard Chaumette.
1821  The Gesture of Rufina Alfaro|Cry of Independence by Rufina Alfaro at Los Santos District|La Villa de Los Santos, Panama setting into motion a revolt which led to History of Panama#Independence|Panama's independence from Spain and to it immediately becoming part of Gran Colombia|Colombia.
1871  Henry Morton Stanley locates missing explorer and missionary, Dr David Livingstone in Ujiji, near Lake Tanganyika, famously greeting him with the words, \"Dr. Livingstone, I presume?\".
1898  Beginning of the Wilmington insurrection of 1898, the only instance of a municipal government being overthrown in United States history.
1918  The Western Union Cable Office in North Sydney, Nova Scotia, receives a top-secret coded message from Europe (that would be sent to Ottawa and Washington, D.C.) that said on November 11, 1918, all fighting would cease on land, sea and in the air.
1951  With the rollout of the North American Numbering Plan, direct-dial coast-to-coast telephone service begins in the United States.
1958  The Hope Diamond is donated to the Smithsonian Institution by New York diamond merchant Harry Winston.
1969  National Educational Television (the predecessor to the Public Broadcasting Service) in the United States debuts ''Sesame Street''.
1972  Southern Airways Southern_Airways_Flight_49|Flight 49 from Birmingham, Alabama is Aircraft hijacking|hijacked and, at one point, is threatened with crashing into the nuclear installation at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. After two days, the plane lands in Havana, Cuba, where the hijackers are jailed by Fidel Castro.
1979  A 106-car Canadian Pacific freight train carrying explosive and poisonous chemicals from Windsor, Ontario, Canada 1979 Mississauga train derailment|derails in Mississauga, Ontario, just west of Toronto, causing a massive explosion and the largest peacetime evacuation in Canadian history and one of the largest in North American history.
1983  Bill Gates introduces Windows 1.0.
1989  Longtime People's Republic of Bulgaria|Bulgarian leader Todor Zhivkov is removed from office and replaced by Petar Mladenov.
1989    Germans begin to tear down the Berlin Wall.
1995  In Nigeria, playwright and environmental activist Ken Saro-Wiwa, along with eight others from the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (Mosop), are hanged by government forces.
1997  WorldCom and MCI Communications announce a $37 billion merger (the largest merger in US history at the time).
2006  Sri Lankan Tamil politician Nadarajah Raviraj is assassinated in Colombo.
2006    The National Museum of the Marine Corps in Quantico, Virginia is opened and dedicated by U.S. President George W. Bush, who announces that Marine Corporal Jason Dunham will posthumously receive the Medal of Honor.
