365  The Alemanni cross the Rhine and invade Gaul. Emperor Valentinian I moves to Paris to command the army and defend the Gallic cities.
996  Emperor Otto III, Holy Roman Emperor|Otto III issues a deed to Gottschalk, Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Munich and Freising|Bishop of Freising, which is the oldest known document using the name ''Ostarrîchi'' (Austria in Old High German).
1141  Empress Empress Matilda|Matilda's reign as 'Lady of the English' ends with Stephen, King of England|Stephen of Blois regaining the title of 'King of Kingdom of England|England'.
1179  Philip II of France|Philip II is coronation|crowned as 'King of France in the Middle Ages|France'.
1214  The port city of Sinop, Turkey|Sinope Siege of Sinope|surrenders to the Seljuq Turks.
1503  Pope Julius II is elected.
1512  The ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, painted by Michelangelo, is exhibited to the public for the first time.
1520  The Strait of Magellan, the passage immediately south of mainland South America connecting the Pacific and the Atlantic Oceans, is first discovered and navigated by European explorer Ferdinand Magellan during the first recorded circumnavigation voyage.
1555  French Huguenots establish the France Antarctique colony in present-day Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
1570  The All Saints' Flood (1570)|All Saints' Flood devastates the Dutch coast.
1604  William Shakespeare's tragedy ''Othello'' is performed for the first time, at Whitehall Palace in London.
1611  Shakespeare's play ''The Tempest'' is performed for the first time, at Whitehall Palace in London.
1612  During the Time of Troubles, Polish troops are expelled from Moscow's Kitay-gorod by Russian troops under the command of Dmitry Pozharsky (22 October Old Style|O.S.) .
1683  The British Crown Province of New York|colony of New York is subdivided into 12 List of counties in New York|counties.
1765  The British Parliament enacts the Stamp Act 1765|Stamp Act on the Thirteen Colonies in order to help pay for British military operations in North America.
1800  John Adams becomes the first President of the United States to live in the Executive Mansion (later renamed the White House).
1848  In Boston, Massachusetts, the first medical school for women, Boston Female Medical School (which later merged with the Boston University School of Medicine), opens.
1870  In the United States, the Weather Bureau (later renamed the National Weather Service) makes its first official Meteorology|meteorological forecast.
1884  The Gaelic Athletic Association is set up in Hayes's Hotel in Thurles|Thurles, County Tipperary.
1894   Buffalo Bill, 15 of his Indians, and Annie Oakley were filmed by Thomas Edison in his Edison's Black Maria|Black Maria Studio in West Orange, New Jersey.
1896  A picture showing the bare breasts of a woman appears in ''National Geographic (magazine)|National Geographic'' magazine for the first time.
1897  The first Library of Congress building opens its doors to the public; the library had previously been housed in the Congressional Reading Room in the U.S. Capitol.
1901  Sigma Phi Epsilon, the largest national male collegiate Student fraternities and sororities in North America|fraternity, is established at University of Richmond|Richmond College, in Richmond, Virginia.
1916  In Russia, Pavel Milyukov delivers in the State Duma the famous \"stupidity or treason\" speech, precipitating the downfall of the government of Boris Stürmer.
1918    West Ukrainian People's Republic|Western Ukraine separates from Austria-Hungary.
1920  American fishing schooner Esperanto (schooner)|Esperanto defeats the Canadian fishing schooner Delawana (schooner)|Delawana in the First International Fishing Schooner Championship Races in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
1922  Abolition of the Ottoman sultanate: The last sultan of the Ottoman Empire, Mehmed VI, abdicates.
1928  The ''Law on the Adoption and Implementation of the Turkish alphabet|Turkish Alphabet'', replaces the Arabic alphabet with the Latin alphabet.
1937  Stalinism|Stalinists execute Pastor Paul Hamberg and seven members of Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic|Azerbaijan's Lutheran community.
1941  American photographer Ansel Adams takes a Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico|picture of a moonrise over the town of Hernandez, New Mexico that would become one of the most famous images in the history of photography.
1945  The official North Korean newspaper, ''Rodong Sinmun'', is first published under the name ''Chongro''.
1948    Athenagoras I of Constantinople|Athenagoras I, Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople, is enthroned.
1950  Puerto Rico|Puerto Rican nationalists Griselio Torresola and Oscar Collazo Attempted assassination of Harry S. Truman|attempt to assassinate US President Harry S. Truman at Blair House.
1950    Pope Pius XII claims papal infallibility when he formally dogmatic definition|defines the dogma of the Assumption of Mary.
1952  Nuclear weapons testing: The United States successfully detonates Ivy Mike, the first thermonuclear device, at the Eniwetok atoll. The explosion had a yield of ten megatons TNT equivalent.
1956  The Indian states Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and Mysore State|Mysore are formally created under the States Reorganisation Act, 1956|States Reorganisation Act; Kanyakumari district is joined to Tamil Nadu from Kerala.
1957  The Mackinac Bridge, the world's longest suspension bridge between anchorages at the time, opens to traffic connecting Michigan's upper and lower peninsulas.
1960  While campaigning for President of the United States, John F. Kennedy announces his idea of the Peace Corps.
1963  The Arecibo Observatory in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, with the largest radio telescope ever constructed, officially opens.
1963    The 1963 South Vietnamese coup begins
1968  The Motion Picture Association of America's Motion Picture Association of America film rating system|film rating system is officially introduced, originating with the ratings G, M, R, and X.
1973  Watergate scandal: Leon Jaworski is appointed as the new Watergate Special Prosecutor.
1973    The Indian state of Mysore is renamed as Karnataka to represent all the regions within Karunadu.
1979  In Bolivia, Colonel Alberto Natusch executes a bloody coup d'état against the constitutional government of Wálter Guevara.
1981  Antigua and Barbuda gains independence from the United Kingdom.
1982  Honda becomes the first Asian automobile company to produce cars in the United States with the opening of its factory in Marysville, Ohio; a Honda Accord is the first car produced there.
1984  After the assassination of Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India on 31 October 1984, by two of her Sikh bodyguards, anti-Sikh riots erupts.
1987  British Rail Class 43 (HST) hits the record speed of 238 km/h for rail vehicles with on-board fuel to generate electricity for traction motors.
1993  The Maastricht Treaty takes effect, formally establishing the European Union.
2000  The Serbia and Montenegro|Republic of Serbia and Montenegro joins the United Nations.
