164 BC  Judas Maccabeus, son of Mattathias of the Hasmonean family, restores the Temple in Jerusalem. This event is commemorated each year by the festival of Hanukkah.
235  Pope Anterus succeeds Pope Pontian|Pontian as the nineteenth pope. During the persecutions of emperor Maximinus Thrax he is martyred.
1009  Lý Công Uẩn is enthroned as emperor of Đại Cồ Việt, founding the Lý dynasty.
1386  Timur|Timur of Samarkand Timur's invasions of Georgia|captures and sacks the Kingdom of Georgia|Georgian capital of Tbilisi, taking King Bagrat V of Georgia captive.
1620  Plymouth Colony List of Mayflower passengers|settlers sign the Mayflower Compact (November 11, Old Style and New Style dates|O.S.)
1676  The Danish astronomer Ole Rømer Rømer's determination of the speed of light|presents the first quantitative measurements of the speed of light.
1783  In Paris, Jean-François Pilâtre de Rozier and François Laurent d'Arlandes, make the first untethered hot air balloon flight.
1789  North Carolina ratifies the United States Constitution and is admitted as the 12th U.S. state.
1832  Wabash College is founded in Crawfordsville, Indiana.
1877  Thomas Edison announces his invention of the phonograph, a machine that can record and play sound.
1902  The Philadelphia Athletics (NFL)|Philadelphia Football Athletics defeated the Kanaweola Athletic Club of Elmira, New York, 39–0, in the first ever professional American football night game.
1905  Albert Einstein's paper that leads to the mass–energy equivalence formula, ''E''&nbsp;=&nbsp;''mc''², is published in the journal ''Annalen der Physik''.
1918  The Flag of Estonia, previously used by pro-independence activists, is formally adopted as the national flag of the Republic of Estonia.
1922  Rebecca Latimer Felton of Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia takes the oath of office, becoming the first female United States Senate|United States Senator.
1942  The completion of the Alaska Highway (also known as the Alcan Highway) is celebrated (however, the highway is not usable by standard road vehicles until 1943).
1945  The United Auto Workers strike 92 General Motors plants in 50 cities to back up worker demands for a 30-percent raise.
1953  The Natural History Museum, London announces that the \"Piltdown Man\" human skull|skull, initially believed to be one of the most important fossilized hominid skulls ever found, is a hoax.
1959  American disc jockey Alan Freed, who had popularized the term \"rock and roll\" and music of that style, is fired from WABC (AM)|WABC-AM radio over allegations he had participated in the payola scandal.
1961  The \"La Ronde (restaurant)|La Ronde\" opens in Honolulu, first revolving restaurant in the United States.
1964  The Verrazano–Narrows Bridge|Verrazano-Narrows Bridge opens to traffic. At the time it is the world's longest bridge span.
1964    Second Vatican Council: The third session of the Roman Catholic Church's ecumenical council closes.
1969  U.S. President Richard Nixon and Japanese Premier Eisaku Satō agree on the return of Okinawa to Japanese control in 1972. The U.S. retains rights to bases on the island, but these are to be nuclear-free.
1969    The first permanent ARPANET link is established between UCLA and SRI International|SRI.
1972  Voters in South Korea overwhelmingly approve a new constitution, giving legitimacy to Park Chung-hee and the Fourth Republic of South Korea|Fourth Republic.
1977  Minister of Internal Affairs (New Zealand)|Minister of Internal Affairs Allan Highet announces that the national anthems of New Zealand shall be the traditional anthem \"God Save the Queen\" and \"God Defend New Zealand\".
1985  United States Navy intelligence analyst Jonathan Pollard is arrested for espionage|spying after being caught giving Israel classified information on Arab nations. He is subsequently sentenced to life in prison.
1986  National Security Council member Oliver North and his secretary start to shred documents allegedly implicating them in the Iran–Contra affair.
2002  NATO invites Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia to become members.
2004  The second round of the Ukrainian presidential election, 2004|Ukrainian presidential election is held, giving rise to massive protests and controversy over the election's integrity.
2004    The Paris Club agrees to write off 80% (up to $100&nbsp;billion) of Iraq's external debt.
2006  Anti-Syrian Lebanese politician and government minister Pierre Amine Gemayel|Pierre Gemayel is assassinated in suburban Beirut.
2013  Euromaidan|Massive protests start in Ukraine after President of Ukraine|President Viktor Yanukovych suspended signing the Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement.
2017  Robert Mugabe formally resigns as President of Zimbabwe, after some thirty-seven years in office.
