361  Julian (emperor)|Julian enters Constantinople as sole Emperor of the Roman Empire.
861  Assassination of the Abbasid caliph al-Mutawakkil by the Turkish guard, who raise al-Muntasir to the throne. Start of the \"Anarchy at Samarra\".
969  Byzantine Emperor Nikephoros II Phokas is assassinated by his wife Theophano (10th century)|Theophano and her lover, the later Emperor John I Tzimiskes.
1789  The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill|University of North Carolina is chartered by the North Carolina General Assembly.
1815  The United States Senate|U.S. Senate creates a select committee on finance and a uniform national currency, predecessor of the United States Senate Committee on Finance.
1816  Indiana becomes the 19th U.S. state.
1905  A workers' uprising occurs in Kiev, Ukraine (then part of the Russian Empire), and establishes the Shuliavka Republic.
1925  Catholic Church|Roman Catholic Pope|papal encyclical ''Quas primas'' introduces the Feast of Christ the King.
1927  Guangzhou Uprising: Communist Party of China|Communist Red Guards (China)|Red Guards launch an uprising in Guangzhou, China, taking over most of the city and announcing the formation of a Guangzhou Soviet (council)|Soviet.
1931  Statute of Westminster 1931: The Parliament of the United Kingdom|British Parliament establishes legislative equality between the UK and the Dominions of the Commonwealth of Nations|Commonwealth&mdash;Australia, Canada, Dominion of Newfoundland|Newfoundland, Dominion of New Zealand|New Zealand, Union of South Africa|South Africa, and Irish Free State|Ireland.
1934  Bill W.|Bill Wilson, co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous, takes his last drink and enters treatment for the last time.
1946  The United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) is established.
1958  French Upper Volta and French Dahomey gain self-government from French Fourth Republic|France, becoming the Republic of Upper Volta and the Republic of Dahomey (now Benin), respectively, and joining the French Community.
1960  French forces crack down in a violent clash with protesters in French Algeria during a visit by President of France|French President Charles de Gaulle.
1964  Che Guevara speaks at the United Nations General Assembly in New York City.
1968  ''The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus'', featuring the Rolling Stones, Jethro Tull (band)|Jethro Tull, the Who, Taj Mahal (musician)|Taj Mahal, Marianne Faithfull, and the Dirty Mac with Yoko Ono, is filmed in Wembley, London.
1972  ''Apollo 17'' becomes the sixth and last Apollo program|Apollo mission to land on the Moon.
1978  The Lufthansa heist is committed by a group led by Lucchese crime family|Lucchese family associate James Burke (gangster)|Jimmy Burke.  It was the largest cash robbery ever committed on American soil, at that time.
1980  The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (Superfund) is enacted by the United States Congress|U.S. Congress.
1990  Demonstrations by students and workers across Albania begin, which eventually trigger the fall of communism in Albania.
1997  The Kyoto Protocol opens for signature.
2001  The People's Republic of China joins the World Trade Organization (WTO).
2005  The Buncefield fire|Buncefield Oil Depot catches fire in Hemel Hempstead, England.
2006  The International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust is opened in Tehran, Iran, by then-president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad; nations such as Israel and the United States express concern.
2008  Bernard Madoff is arrested and charged with securities fraud in a $50 billion Ponzi scheme.
