1528  Gustav I of Sweden is crowned king of Sweden, having already reigned since his election in June 1523.
1554  Bayinnaung, who would go on to assemble the largest empire in the history of Southeast Asia, is crowned List of Burmese monarchs|King of Burma.
1616  The city of Belém, Brazil is founded on the Amazon River delta, by Portuguese captain Francisco Caldeira Castelo Branco.
1808  John Rennie the Elder|John Rennie's scheme to defend St Mary's Church, Reculver, founded in 669, from coastal erosion is abandoned in favour of demolition, despite the church being an exemplar of Anglo-Saxon architecture and Anglo-Saxon art|sculpture.
1808    The organizational meeting leading to the creation of the Wernerian Natural History Society, a former Scottish learned society, is held in Edinburgh.
1866  The Royal Aeronautical Society is formed in London.
1872  Yohannes IV is crowned Emperor of Ethiopia in Axum, the first imperial coronation in that city in over 200 years.
1895  National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty|The National Trust is founded in the United Kingdom.
1908  A long-distance Radio broadcasting#History|radio message is sent from the Eiffel Tower for the first time.
1911  The University of the Philippines College of Law is formally established; three future President of the Philippines|Philippine presidents are among the first enrollees.
1915  The United States House of Representatives rejects a proposal to require states to give women's suffrage|women the right to vote.
1921  Acting to restore confidence in baseball after the Black Sox Scandal, Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis is elected as Major League Baseball's first commissioner.
1932  Hattie Caraway becomes the first woman elected to the United States Senate.
1966  Lyndon B. Johnson states that the United States should stay in South Vietnam until Communism|Communist aggression there is ended.
1967  Dr. James Bedford becomes the first person to be cryonics|cryonically preserved with intent of future resuscitation.
1969  The New York Jets of the American Football League defeat the History of the Baltimore Colts|Baltimore Colts of the National Football League to win Super Bowl III in what is considered to be one of the greatest upsets in sports history.
1971  The Harrisburg Seven: Rev. Philip Berrigan and five other activists are indicted on charges of conspiring to kidnap Henry Kissinger and of plotting to blow up the heating tunnels of federal buildings in Washington, D.C.
1976  The United Nations Security Council votes 11–1 to allow the Palestine Liberation Organization to participate in a Security Council debate (without voting rights).
1986  Space Shuttle program: Congressman Bill Nelson (politician)|Bill Nelson lifts off from Kennedy Space Center aboard Space Shuttle Columbia|''Columbia'' on mission STS-61-C as a payload specialist.
1998  Nineteen European nations agree to forbid human cloning.
2001  Downtown Disney (Disneyland Resort)|Downtown Disney opens to the public as part of the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, California.
2004  The world's largest ocean liner, {{RMS|Queen Mary 2}}, makes its maiden voyage.
2005  Deep Impact (spacecraft)|Deep Impact launches from Cape Canaveral on a Delta II rocket.
2012  2012 Romanian protests|Violent protests occur in Bucharest, Romania, as two-day-old demonstrations continue against President Traian Băsescu's economic austerity measures. Clashes are reported in numerous Romanian cities between protesters and law enforcement officers.
