613  Eight-month-old Constantine III (Byzantine emperor)|Constantine is crowned as co-emperor (''Caesar (title)|Caesar'') by his father Heraclius at Constantinople.
1506  The first contingent of 150 Swiss Guards arrives at the Vatican City|Vatican.
1555  The Ava Kingdom falls to the Taungoo Dynasty in what is now Burma.
1689  The Convention Parliament (1689)|Convention Parliament convenes to determine whether  James II of England|James II and VII, the last Roman Catholic Church|Roman Catholic monarch of England, Ireland and Scotland, had vacated the thrones of England and Ireland when he fled to France in 1688.
1808  The House of Braganza|Portuguese royal family Transfer of the Portuguese Court to Brazil|arrives in Brazil after fleeing the Invasion of Portugal (1807)|French army's invasion of Portugal two months earlier.
1824  The Ashantis defeat British forces in the Gold Coast (British colony)|Gold Coast.
1863  The January Uprising breaks out in Poland, Lithuania and Belarus. The aim of the national movement is to regain Polish–Lithuanian–Ruthenian Commonwealth from occupation by Russia.
1889  Columbia Phonograph is formed in Washington, D.C.
1890  The United Mine Workers of America is founded in Columbus, Ohio.
1919  Act Zluky is signed, unifying the Ukrainian People's Republic and the West Ukrainian National Republic.
1924  Ramsay MacDonald becomes the first Labour Party (UK)|Labour Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
1927  Teddy Wakelam gives the first live radio commentary of a association football|football match anywhere in the world, between Arsenal F.C. and Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United at Arsenal Stadium|Highbury.
1946  In Iran, Qazi Muhammad declares the independent people's Republic of Mahabad at Chahar Cheragh Square in the Kurdish city of Mahabad; he becomes the new president and Haji Baba Sheikh becomes the prime minister.
1946    Creation of the ''Central Intelligence Group'', forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
1947  KTLA, the first commercial television station west of the Mississippi River, begins operation in Hollywood.
1957  Israel withdraws from the Sinai Peninsula.
1957    The New York City \"Mad Bomber\", George P. Metesky, is arrested in Waterbury, Connecticut and charged with planting more than 30 bombs.
1963  The Élysée Treaty of cooperation between France and Germany is signed by Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer.
1968  Apollo 5 lifts off carrying the first Lunar module into space.
1968    Operation Igloo White, a US electronic surveillance system to stop People's Army of Vietnam|communist infiltration into South Vietnam begins installation.
1970  The Boeing 747, the world's first \"jumbo jet\", enters commercial service for launch customer Pan American Airways with its maiden voyage from John F. Kennedy International Airport to London Heathrow Airport.
1971  The Singapore Declaration, one of the two most important documents to the uncodified constitution of the Commonwealth of Nations, is issued.
1973  The Supreme Court of the United States delivers its decisions in ''Roe v. Wade'' and ''Doe v. Bolton'', legalizing elective Abortion in the United States|abortion in all fifty states.
1973    The crew of Apollo 17 addresses a joint session of Congress after the completion of the final Apollo moon landing mission.
1973    In a bout for the world heavyweight boxing championship in Kingston, Jamaica, challenger George Foreman knocks down champion Joe Frazier six times in the first two rounds before the fight is stopped by referee Arthur Mercante.<ref name=history>{{cite web|title=Foreman beats Frazier to win heavyweight title in Jamaica|url=http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/foreman-beats-frazier-to-win-heavyweight-title-in-jamaica|publisher=history.com|accessdate=22 January 2018}}</ref>
1984  The Apple Macintosh, the first consumer computer to popularize the computer mouse and the graphical user interface, is introduced during a  Super Bowl XVIII television commercial.
1992  Rebel forces occupy Zaire's national radio station in Kinshasa and broadcast a demand for the government's resignation.
1992    Space Shuttle program: Dr. Roberta Bondar becomes the first Canadian woman and the first neurologist in space.
2002  Kmart becomes the largest retailer in United States history to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
2006  Evo Morales is inaugurated as President of Bolivia, becoming the country's first indigenous president.
