393  Roman Emperor Theodosius I proclaims his eight-year-old son Honorius (emperor)|Honorius co-emperor.
1368  In a coronation ceremony, Zhu Yuanzhang ascends the Emperor of China|throne of China as the Hongwu Emperor, initiating Ming dynasty rule over China that would last for three centuries.
1546  Having published nothing for eleven years, François Rabelais publishes the ''Tiers Livre'', his sequel to ''Gargantua and Pantagruel''.
1571  The Royal Exchange, London|Royal Exchange opens in London.
1579  The Union of Utrecht forms a Protestantism|Protestant republic in the Netherlands.
1656  Blaise Pascal publishes the first of his ''Lettres provinciales''.
1719  The Principality of Liechtenstein is created within the Holy Roman Empire.
1789  Georgetown University|Georgetown College, the first Catholic university in the United States, is founded in Georgetown (Washington, D.C.)|Georgetown, Maryland (now a part of Washington, D.C.)
1793  Second Partition of Poland.
1846  Slavery in Tunisia is abolished.
1899  The Malolos Constitution is inaugurated, establishing the First Philippine Republic. Emilio Aguinaldo is sworn in as its List of Presidents of the Philippines|first President of the Philippines|President.
1912  The International Opium Convention is signed at The Hague.
1937  The Moscow Trials|trial of the anti-Soviet Trotskyist center sees seventeen mid-level Communists accused of sympathizing with Leon Trotsky and plotting to overthrow Joseph Stalin's regime.
1941  Charles Lindbergh testifies before the United States Congress|U.S. Congress and recommends that the United States negotiate a neutrality pact with Adolf Hitler.
1950  The Knesset resolves that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel.
1957  American inventor Walter Frederick Morrison sells the rights to his flying disc to the Wham-O toy company, which later renames it the \"Frisbee\".
1958  After a general uprising and rioting in the streets, President of Venezuela|President Marcos Pérez Jiménez leaves Venezuela.
1960  The bathyscaphe Bathyscaphe Trieste|USS ''Trieste'' breaks a depth record by descending to {{Convert|10911|m|ft}} in the Pacific Ocean.
1964  The Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution|24th Amendment to the United States Constitution, prohibiting the use of Poll tax (United States)|poll taxes in national elections, is ratified.
1967  Diplomatic relations between the Soviet Union and Ivory Coast are established.
1967  Milton Keynes (England) is founded as a New towns in the United Kingdom|new town by Order in Council, with a planning brief to become a city of 250,000 people. Its initial designated area enclosed three existing towns and twenty one villages. The area to be developed was largely farmland,  with History of Milton Keynes|evidence of continuous settlement dating back to the Bronze Age.
1973  United States President Richard Nixon announces that a peace accord has been reached in Vietnam.
1986  The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inducts its first members: Little Richard, Chuck Berry, James Brown, Ray Charles, Sam Cooke, Fats Domino, The Everly Brothers, Buddy Holly, Jerry Lee Lewis and Elvis Presley.
1997  Madeleine Albright becomes the first woman to serve as United States Secretary of State.
1998  Netscape announced Mozilla, with the intention to release Communicator code as open source.
2001  Five people attempt to Tiananmen Square self-immolation incident|set themselves on fire in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, an act that many people later claim is staged by the Communist Party of China to frame Falun Gong and thus escalate their persecution of Falun Gong|persecution.
2003  A very weak signal from Pioneer 10 is detected for the last time, but no usable data can be extracted.
