904  Pope Sergius III|Sergius III comes out of retirement to take over the pope|papacy from the deposed antipope Christopher.
1790  The first boat specializing as a Lifeboat (rescue)|lifeboat is tested on the River Tyne.
1819  Stamford Raffles lands on the island of Singapore.
1845  \"The Raven\" is published in ''The Evening Mirror'' in New York, the first publication with the name of the author, Edgar Allan Poe
1850  Henry Clay introduces the Compromise of 1850 to the United States Congress|U.S. Congress.
1861  Kansas is admitted as the 34th U.S. state.
1886  Karl Benz patents the first successful gasoline-driven automobile.
1891  Liliuokalani is proclaimed the last monarch and only queen regnant of the Kingdom of Hawaii.
1907  Charles Curtis of Kansas becomes the first Native American United States Senate|U.S. Senator.
1936  The List of members of the Baseball Hall of Fame|first inductees into the Baseball Hall of Fame are announced.
1959  The first Melodifestivalen is held in Stockholm, Sweden.
1963  The List of Pro Football Hall of Fame inductees|first inductees into the Pro Football Hall of Fame are announced.
1980  The Rubik's Cube makes its international debut at the Ideal Toy Corp. in Earl's Court, London.
1996  President Jacques Chirac announces a \"definitive end\" to French nuclear weapons testing.
2001  Thousands of student protesters in Indonesia storm parliament and demand that President of Indonesia|President Abdurrahman Wahid resign due to alleged involvement in corruption scandals.
2009  The Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt rules that people who do not adhere to one of the three Religion in Egypt#Recognized religions|government-recognised religions, while not allowed to list any belief outside of those three, are still Egyptian identification card controversy|eligible to receive government identity documents.
2009    Governor of Illinois Rod Blagojevich Rod Blagojevich corruption charges|is removed from office following his conviction of several corruption charges, including the alleged solicitation of personal benefit in exchange for an appointment to the United States Senate as a replacement for then-President-elect of the United States|U.S. president-elect Barack Obama.
