1400  The Trần dynasty of Vietnam is deposed, after one hundred and seventy-five years of rule, by Hồ Quý Ly, a court official.
1540  Waltham Abbey Church|Waltham Abbey is surrendered to King Henry VIII of England; the last religious community to be closed during the Dissolution of the Monasteries.
1806  After traveling through the Louisiana Purchase and reaching the Pacific Ocean, explorers Lewis and Clark and their \"Corps of Discovery\" begin their arduous journey home.
1848  The ship ''John Wickliffe (ship)|John Wickliffe'' arrives at Port Chalmers carrying the first Scottish settlers for Dunedin, New Zealand. Otago province is founded.
1857  Elisha Otis's first elevator is installed at 488 Broadway (Manhattan)|Broadway New York City.
1868  The University of California is founded in Oakland, California when the Organic Act is signed into law.
1888  In England, English Football League|The Football League, the world's oldest professional association football league, meets for the first time.
1889  The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community is established by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad in Qadian|Qadian, British India.
1901  Emilio Aguinaldo, only President of the First Philippine Republic, was captured at Palanan, Isabela by the forces of General Frederick Funston.
1905  Eleftherios Venizelos calls for Crete's union with Greece, and begins what is to be known as the Theriso revolt.
1909  Theodore Roosevelt leaves New York for a post-presidency Smithsonian–Roosevelt African Expedition|safari in Africa. The trip is sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and National Geographic Society.
1919  In Milan, Italy, Benito Mussolini founds his Italian Fascism|Fascist political movement.
1933  The ''Reichstag (Weimar Republic)|Reichstag'' passes the Enabling Act of 1933, making Adolf Hitler dictator of Germany.
1935  Signing of the Constitution of the Philippines#Commonwealth and Third Republic|Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Philippines.
1956  Pakistan becomes the first Islamic republic in the world. (Republic Day#March 23rd in Pakistan|Republic Day in Pakistan)
1965  NASA launches Gemini 3, the United States' first two-man space flight (crew: Gus Grissom and John Young (astronaut)|John Young).
1977  The first of The Nixon Interviews (12 will be recorded over four weeks) is videotaped with British journalist David Frost interviewing former United States President Richard Nixon about the Watergate scandal and the Nixon tapes.
1978  The first UNIFIL troops arrived in Lebanon for Timeline of UN peacekeeping missions|peacekeeping mission along the Blue Line (Lebanon)|Blue Line.
1982  Guatemala's government, headed by Fernando Romeo Lucas García is overthrown in a military coup by right-wing General Efraín Ríos Montt.
1983  Strategic Defense Initiative: President Ronald Reagan makes his initial proposal to develop technology to intercept enemy missiles.
1994  At an election rally in Tijuana, Mexican presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio is assassinated by Mario Aburto Martínez.
1996  Taiwan holds its Taiwanese presidential election, 1996|first direct elections and chooses Lee Teng-hui as President of the Republic of China|President.
1999  Gunmen assassinate Paraguay's Vice President Luis María Argaña.
2001  The Russian ''Mir'' space station is Deorbit of Mir|disposed of, breaking up in the atmosphere before falling into the southern Pacific Ocean near Fiji.
2008  Official opening of Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad, India
