1309  Pope Clement V imposes excommunication and interdiction on Venice, and a general prohibition of all commercial intercourse with Venice, which had seized on Ferrara, a papal fiefdom.
1329  Pope John XXII issues his ''In Agro Dominico'' condemning some writings of Meister Eckhart as heretical.
1513  Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de León reaches the northern end of The Bahamas on his first voyage to Florida.
1625  Charles I of England|Charles I becomes King of England, Scotland and Ireland as well as claiming the title English claims to the French throne|King of France.
1782  Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham becomes Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
1794  The Federal government of the United States|United States Government establishes a permanent United States Navy|navy and authorizes the building of Original six frigates of the United States Navy|six frigates.
1794    Denmark and Sweden form a Country neutrality (international relations)|neutrality compact.
1866  President Andrew Johnson vetoes the Civil Rights Act of 1866. His veto is overridden by Congress and the bill passes into law on April 9.
1915  Typhoid Mary, the first Asymptomatic carrier|healthy carrier of disease ever identified in the United States, is put in quarantine, where she would remain for the rest of her life.
1918  The National Council of Bessarabia proclaims Union of Bessarabia with Romania|union with the Kingdom of Romania.
1958  Nikita Khrushchev becomes Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union.
1975  Construction of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System begins.
1980    Silver Thursday: A steep fall in silver prices, resulting from Nelson Bunker Hunt|the Hunt Brothers attempting to corner the market in silver, leads to panic on commodity and futures exchanges.
1990  The United States begins broadcasting anti-Fidel Castro|Castro propaganda to Cuba on TV Martí.
1993  Jiang Zemin is appointed President of the People's Republic of China.
1993    Italian former minister and Christian Democracy (Italy)|Christian Democracy leader Giulio Andreotti is accused of Sicilian Mafia|mafia allegiance by the tribunal of Palermo.
1998  The Food and Drug Administration approves Viagra for use as a treatment for male impotence, the first pill to be approved for this condition in the United States.
2004  {{HMS|Scylla|F71|6}}, a decommissioned Leander-class frigate|''Leander''-class frigate, is sunk as an artificial reef off Cornwall, the first of its kind in Europe.
2014  Government of the Philippines|Philippines signs a Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro|peace accord with the largest Muslim rebel group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, ending decades of Moro insurgency in the Philippines|conflict.
