306  Martyrdom of Saint Adrian of Nicomedia.
852  Croatian Knez (title)|Knez Trpimir I of Croatia|Trpimir I issues a statute, a document with the first known written mention of the Croats name in Croatian sources.
932  Translation of the relics of martyr Wenceslaus I, Duke of Bohemia, Prince of the Czechs.
1152  Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor|Frederick I Barbarossa is elected King of Germany.
1351  Ramathibodi I|Ramathibodi becomes Monarchy of Thailand|King of Siam.
1386  Władysław II Jagiełło (Jogaila) is crowned King of Poland.
1493  Explorer Christopher Columbus arrives back in Lisbon, Portugal, aboard his ship ''Niña'' from Voyages of Christopher Columbus#First voyage|his voyage to what are now The Bahamas and other islands in the Caribbean.
1519  Hernán Cortés arrives in Mexico in search of the Aztec civilization and its wealth.
1628  The Massachusetts Bay Colony is granted a Royal charter.
1675  John Flamsteed is appointed the first Astronomer Royal of England.
1681  Charles II grants a land charter to William Penn for the area that will later become Pennsylvania.
1789  In New York City, the 1st United States Congress|first Congress of the United States meets, putting the United States Constitution into effect. The United States Bill of Rights is written and proposed to Congress.
1790  France is divided into 83 ''Departments of France|départements'', cutting across the provinces of France|former provinces in an attempt to dislodge regional loyalties based on ownership of land by the nobility.
1791  The Constitutional Act of 1791 is introduced by the House of Commons of the United Kingdom|British House of Commons in London which envisages the separation of Canada into Lower Canada (Quebec) and Upper Canada (Ontario).
1791  Vermont is admission to the Union|admitted to the United States as the fourteenth U.S. state|state.
1794  The Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution|11th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution is passed by the United States Congress|U.S. Congress.
1797  John Adams is inaugurated as the 2nd President of the United States of America, becoming the first President to begin his presidency on March 4.
1804  Castle Hill convict rebellion|Castle Hill Rebellion: Irish convicts rebel against British colonial authority in the Colony of New South Wales.
1813  Cyril VI of Constantinople is elected Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople.
1837  The city of Chicago is incorporated.
1848  Charles Albert of Savoy|Carlo Alberto di Savoia signs the ''Statuto Albertino'' that will later represent the first Constitution of Italy|constitution of the ''Italy|Regno d'Italia''.
1861  The Flags of the Confederate States of America|first national flag of the Confederate States of America (the \"Stars and Bars\") is adopted.
1865  The Flags of the Confederate States of America|third and final national flag of the Confederate States of America is adopted by the Confederate Congress.
1882  Britain's Trams in London|first electric trams run in east London.
1909  U.S. President William Taft used what became known as a Saxbe fix, a mechanism to avoid the restriction of the United States Constitution|U.S. Constitution's Ineligibility Clause, to appoint Philander C. Knox as United States Secretary of State|U.S. Secretary of State
1913    The United States Department of Labor is formed.
1917  Jeannette Rankin of Montana becomes the first female member of the United States House of Representatives.
1933  Frances Perkins becomes United States Secretary of Labor, the first female member of the United States Cabinet.
1933    The Parliament of Austria is Self-elimination of Parliament|suspended because of a quibble over procedure  Chancellor of Austria|Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss initiates an Austrofascism|authoritarian rule by decree.
1957  The S&P 500 stock market index is introduced, replacing the S&P 90.
1966    In an interview in the ''London Evening Standard'', The Beatles' John Lennon declares that the band is \"more popular than Jesus now\".
1970  French submarine ''French submarine Eurydice (S644)|Eurydice'' explodes underwater, resulting in the loss of the entire 57-man crew.
1974  ''People (magazine)|People'' magazine is published for the first time in the United States as ''People Weekly''.
1976  The Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention is formally dissolved in Northern Ireland resulting in Direct rule over Northern Ireland|direct rule of Northern Ireland from London by the Parliament of the United Kingdom|British parliament.
1980  Nationalist leader Robert Mugabe wins a sweeping election victory to become Zimbabwe's first black Prime Minister of Zimbabwe|prime minister.
1985  The Food and Drug Administration approves a blood test for AIDS infection, used since then for screening all blood donations in the United States.
1986  The Soviet Union|Soviet Vega 1 begins returning images of Halley's Comet and the first images of its nucleus.
1998  LGBT rights in the United States|Gay rights: ''Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc.'': The Supreme Court of the United States rules that federal laws banning on-the-job sexual harassment also apply when both parties are the same sex.
2018  Former MI6 spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter are Poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal|poisoned with a Novichok nerve agent in Salisbury, England, causing a diplomatic uproar that results in mass-expulsions of diplomats from all countries involved.
