631  Emperor Taizong of Tang, the Emperor of China, sends envoys to the Xueyantuo bearing gold and silk in order to seek the release of enslaved Zhonghua minzu|Chinese prisoners captured during the transition from Sui to Tang from the northern frontier; this embassy succeeded in freeing 80,000 Chinese men and women who were then returned to China.
980  Vladimir the Great consolidates the Kievan realm from Ukraine to the Baltic Sea. He is proclaimed ruler (''knyaz'') of all Kievan Rus'.
1011  Norman conquest of southern Italy#Lombard Revolt, 1009–1022|Lombard Revolt: Greek citizens of Bari rise up against the Lombardy|Lombard rebels led by Melus of Bari|Melus and deliver the city to Basil Mesardonites, Byzantine governor (''Katepano|catepan'') of the Catepanate of Italy.
1118  Roger of Salerno, Principality of Antioch|Prince of Antioch, captures Azaz from the Seljuk Turks.
1157  Albert I of Brandenburg, also called The Bear (Ger: Albrecht der Bär), becomes the founder of the Margraviate of Brandenburg, Germany and the first margrave.
1345  The ''megas doux'' Alexios Apokaukos, chief minister of the Byzantine Empire, is lynched by political prisoners.
1509  Henry VIII of England marries Catherine of Aragon.
1594  Philip II of Spain|Philip II recognizes the rights and privileges of the local nobles and chieftains in the Philippines, which paved way to the stabilization of the rule of the Principalía (an elite ruling class of native nobility in Spanish Philippines).
1748  Denmark adopts the characteristic Nordic Cross flag later taken up by all other Scandinavian countries.
1770  British explorer Captain James Cook runs aground on the Great Barrier Reef.
1776  The Continental Congress appoints Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Roger Sherman, and Robert R. Livingston (chancellor)|Robert R. Livingston to the Committee of Five to draft a United States Declaration of Independence|declaration of independence.
1788  Russian explorer Gerasim Izmailov reaches Alaska.
1805  A History of Detroit#1805 fire|fire consumes large portions of Detroit in the Michigan Territory.
1825  The first cornerstone is laid for Fort Hamilton in New York City.
1837  The Broad Street Riot occurs in Boston, fueled by ethnic tensions between Yankees and Irish people|Irish.
1892  The Limelight Department, one of the world's first film studios, is officially established in Melbourne, Australia.
1895  Paris–Bordeaux–Paris, sometimes called the first automobile race in history or the \"first motor race\", takes place.
1898  The Hundred Days' Reform, a planned movement to reform social, political, and educational institutions in China, is started by the Guangxu Emperor, but is suspended by Empress Dowager Cixi after 104 days. (The failed reform led to the abolition of the Imperial examination in 1905.)
1901  The boundaries of the Colony of New Zealand are extended by the UK to include the Cook Islands.
1903  A group of Serbian officers May Coup (Serbia)|stormed the royal palace and assassinated King Alexander I of Serbia|Alexander Obrenović and his wife, Draga Mašin|Queen Draga.
1917  King Alexander of Greece|Alexander assumes the throne of Kingdom of Greece (Glücksburg)|Greece after his father, Constantine I of Greece|Constantine I, abdicates under pressure from Triple Entente|allied armies occupying Athens.
1919  Sir Barton wins the Belmont Stakes, becoming the first horse to win the Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing|U.S. Triple Crown.
1920  During the 1920 Republican National Convention|U.S. Republican National Convention in Chicago, Republican Party (United States)|U.S. Republican Party leaders gathered in a room at the Blackstone Hotel to come to a consensus on their candidate for the United States presidential election, 1920|U.S. presidential election, leading the Associated Press to coin the political phrase \"smoke-filled room\".
1935  Inventor Edwin Armstrong gives the first public demonstration of Frequency modulation|FM broadcasting in the United States at Alpine, New Jersey.
1936  The London International Surrealist Exhibition opens.
1937  Great Purge: The Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin executes Case of Trotskyist Anti-Soviet Military Organization|eight army leaders.
1942   Free France|Free French Forces retreat from Bir Hakeim after having successfully delayed the Axis advance.
1962  Frank Morris, John Anglin and Clarence Anglin allegedly become the only prisoners to June 1962 Alcatraz escape|escape from the prison on Alcatraz Island.
1963  American Civil Rights Movement: List of Governors of Alabama|Governor of Alabama George Wallace defiantly Stand in the Schoolhouse Door|stands at the door of Foster Auditorium at the University of Alabama in an attempt to block two black students, Vivian Malone and James Hood, from attending that school. Later in the day, accompanied by federalized National Guard of the United States|National Guard troops, they are able to register.
1968  Lloyd J. Old identified the first Cell membrane|cell surface antigens that could differentiate among different cell types.
1970  After being appointed on May 15, Anna Mae Hays and Elizabeth P. Hoisington officially receive their ranks as U.S. Army General (United States)|Generals, becoming the first females to do so.
1971  The U.S. Government forcibly removes the last holdouts to the Indigenous peoples of the Americas|Native American Occupation of Alcatraz, ending 19 months of control.
1978  Altaf Hussain (Pakistani politician)|Altaf Hussain founds the student political movement All Pakistan Muhajir Students Organisation (APMSO) in Karachi University.
1987  Diane Abbott, Paul Boateng and Bernie Grant are elected as the first black MPs in Great Britain.
1998  Compaq Computer pays US$9 billion for Digital Equipment Corporation in the largest high-tech acquisition.
2002  Antonio Meucci is acknowledged as the first inventor of the telephone by the United States Congress.
2004  Cassini–Huygens makes its closest flyby of the Saturn Natural satellite|moon Phoebe (moon)|Phoebe.
2008  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper makes a historic official apology to Canada's First Nations in regard to abuses at a Canadian Indian residential school system|Canadian Indian residential school.
2008  The Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope is launched into orbit.
2010  The first African FIFA World Cup kicks off in South Africa.
2013  Greece's public broadcaster Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation|ERT is shut down by then-prime minister Antonis Samaras.
2015  Greece's public broadcaster Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation|ERT is reopened by then-prime minister Alexis Tsipras.
2018  United States President Donald J. Trump and Kim Jong-un of North Korea held the first-ever meeting between leaders of their two countries in Singapore.
