653  Pope Martin I is arrested in the Lateran Palace before being taken to Constantinople and tried for high treason.
1397  The Kalmar Union is formed under the rule of Margaret I of Denmark.
1565  Matsunaga Hisahide assassinates the 13th Ashikaga shogunate|Ashikaga shogun, Ashikaga Yoshiteru.
1579  Francis Drake|Sir Francis Drake claims a land he calls ''New Albion|Nova Albion'' (modern California) for England.
1596  The Dutch explorer Willem Barentsz discovers the Arctic archipelago of Svalbard|Spitsbergen.
1673  French people|French explorers Jacques Marquette and Louis Jolliet reach the Mississippi River and become the first Europeans to make a detailed account of its course.
1767  Samuel Wallis, an English sea captain, sights Tahiti and is considered the first European to reach the island.
1773  Cúcuta, Colombia, is founded by Juana Rangel de Cuéllar.
1794  Foundation of Anglo-Corsican Kingdom.
1795  The burghers of Swellendam expel the Dutch East India Company magistrate and declare a republic.
1839  In the Kingdom of Hawaii, Kamehameha III issues the edict of toleration which gives Roman Catholic Church|Roman Catholics the freedom to worship in the Hawaiian Islands. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Honolulu|Hawaii Catholic Church and the Cathedral of Our Lady of Peace are established as a result.
1885  The Statue of Liberty arrives in New York Harbor.
1898  The Hospital Corpsman|United States Navy Hospital Corps is established.
1901  The College Board introduces its first standardized test, the forerunner to the SAT.
1910  Aurel Vlaicu pilots an A. Vlaicu nr. 1 on its first flight.
1922  Portuguese Naval Aviation|Portuguese naval aviators Gago Coutinho and Sacadura Cabral complete the first aerial crossing of the South Atlantic.
1930  U.S. President Herbert Hoover signs the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act into law.
1933  Kansas City massacre|Union Station massacre: In Kansas City, Missouri, four Federal Bureau of Investigation|FBI agents and captured fugitive Frank Nash are gunned down by gangsters attempting to free Nash.
1940    The three Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania fall under the Soviet occupation of the Baltic states (1940)|occupation of the Soviet Union.
1944  Iceland declares Icelandic National Day|independence from Denmark and becomes a republic.
1963  The United States Supreme Court rules 8–1 in ''Abington School District v. Schempp'' against requiring the reciting of Bible verses and the Lord's Prayer in public school (government funded)|public schools.
1967  Nuclear weapons testing: The People's Republic of China announces a Test No. 6|successful test of its first thermonuclear weapon.
1972  Watergate scandal: Five White House operatives are arrested for burgling the offices of the Democratic National Committee, in an attempt by some members of the Republican Party (United States)|Republican party to illegally Telephone tapping|wiretap the opposition.
1985  Space Shuttle program: STS-51-G mission: Space Shuttle Discovery launches carrying Sultan bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, the first Arab and first Muslim in space, as a payload specialist.
1991  Apartheid: The Parliament of South Africa|South African Parliament repeals the Population Registration Act which required racial classification of all South Africans at birth.
1992  A \"joint understanding\" agreement on arms reduction is signed by U.S. President George H. W. Bush|George Bush and President of Russia|Russian President Boris Yeltsin (this would be later codified in START II).
