1527  Fatahillah expels Portuguese Empire|Portuguese forces from Sunda Kelapa, now regarded as the foundation of Jakarta.
1633  The Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith|Holy Office in Rome forces Galileo Galilei to Galileo affair|recant his view that the Sun, not the Earth, is the center of the Universe in the form he presented it in, after heated controversy.
1774  The British pass the Quebec Act, setting out rules of governance for the colony of Quebec in British North America.
1783  A poisonous cloud caused by the Types of volcanic eruptions|eruption of the Laki volcano in Iceland reaches Le Havre in France.
1825  The Parliament of the United Kingdom|British Parliament abolishes feudalism and the Seigneurial system of New France|seigneurial system in British North America.
1839  Cherokee leaders Major Ridge, John Ridge, and Elias Boudinot (Cherokee)|Elias Boudinot are assassinated for signing the Treaty of New Echota, which had resulted in the Cherokee removal|Trail of Tears.
1870  The United States Department of Justice is created by the United States Congress|U.S. Congress.
1897  British Colony|British colonial officers Charles Walter Rand and Lt. Charles Egerton Ayerst are assassinated in Pune, Maharashtra, India by the Chapekar brothers and Mahadeo Vinayak Ranade, who are later caught and hanged.
1907  The London Underground's Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway opens.
1911  George V and Mary of Teck are crowned King and Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
1942  The Pledge of Allegiance is formally adopted by US Congress.
1944  U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs into law the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, commonly known as the G.I. Bill.
1969  The Cuyahoga River catches fire in Cleveland, Ohio, drawing national attention to water pollution, and spurring the passing of the Clean Water Act and the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency.
1978  Charon (moon)|Charon, Pluto's first satellite, was discovered at the United States Naval Observatory by James W. Christy.
1984  Virgin Atlantic Airways launches with its first flight from London Gatwick Airport.
2012  Paraguayan President Fernando Lugo is Impeachment of Fernando Lugo|removed from office by impeachment and succeeded by Federico Franco.
