229  Sun Quan proclaims himself emperor of Eastern Wu.
1305  A peace treaty between the Flanders|Flemish and the French is signed at Treaty of Athis-sur-Orge|Athis-sur-Orge.
1532  Henry VIII of England and Francis I of France sign a secret treaty against Emperor Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor.
1611  The mutinous crew of Henry Hudson's fourth voyage sets Henry, his son and seven loyal crew members adrift in an open boat in what is now Hudson Bay; they are never heard from again.
1683  William Penn signs a friendship treaty with Lenni Lenape Indians in Pennsylvania.
1713  The French residents of Acadia are given one year to declare allegiance to Britain or leave Nova Scotia, Canada.
1794  Empress Catherine the Great|Catherine II of Russia grants Jews permission to settle in Kiev.
1810  John Jacob Astor forms the Pacific Fur Company.
1860  The United States Congress establishes the United States Government Publishing Office|Government Printing Office.
1868  Typewriter: Christopher Latham Sholes received a patent for an invention he called the \"Type-Writer.\"
1887  The Rocky Mountains Park Act becomes law in Canada creating the nation's first national park, Banff National Park.
1894  The International Olympic Committee is founded at the University of Paris|Sorbonne in Paris, at the initiative of Baron Pierre de Coubertin.
1917  In a game against the Texas Rangers (baseball)|Washington Senators, Boston Red Sox pitcher Ernie Shore retires 26 batters in a row after replacing Babe Ruth, who had been ejected for punching the Umpire (baseball)|umpire.
1926  The College Board administers the first SAT exam.
1931  Wiley Post and Harold Gatty take off from Roosevelt Field, Long Island in an attempt to circumnavigate the world in a single-engine plane.
1938  The Civil Aeronautics Act is signed into law, forming the Civil Aeronautics Authority in the United States.
1940  Adolf Hitler goes on a three-hour tour of the architecture of Paris with architect Albert Speer and sculptor Arno Breker in his only visit to the city.
1947  The United States Senate follows the United States House of Representatives in overriding U.S. President Harry S. Truman's veto of the Taft–Hartley Act.
1951  The ocean liner, SS United States, is christened and launched.
1956  The French National Assembly takes the first step in creating the French Community by passing the Loi Cadre, transferring a number of powers from Paris to elected territorial governments in French West Africa.
1959  Convicted Manhattan Project spy Klaus Fuchs is released after only nine years in prison and allowed to emigrate to Dresden, East Germany where he resumes a scientific career.
1960  The United States Food and Drug Administration declares Mestranol/norethynodrel|Enovid to be the first officially approved combined oral contraceptive pill in the world.
1972  Watergate scandal: U.S. President Richard M. Nixon and White House Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman are taped talking about using the Central Intelligence Agency to obstruct the Federal Bureau of Investigation's investigation into the Watergate scandal|Watergate break-ins.
1972    Title IX of the United States Civil Rights Act of 1964 is amended to prohibit sexism|sexual discrimination to any educational program receiving federal government of the United States|federal funds.
2012  Ashton Eaton breaks the Decathlon world record progression|decathlon world record at the 2012 United States Olympic Trials (track and field)|United States Olympic Trials.
2013  Nik Wallenda becomes the first man to Skywire Live|successfully walk across the Grand Canyon on a Tightrope walking|tight rope.
2014  The last of Syria's Syria chemical weapons program|declared chemical weapons are Destruction of Syria's chemical weapons|shipped out for destruction.
2016  The United Kingdom votes in a United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016|referendum to leave the European Union, by 52% to 48%.
