622  The beginning of the Islamic calendar.
1054  Three Roman Legatus|legates break relations between Western Christianity|Western and Eastern Christianity|Eastern Christian Churches through the act of placing an invalidly-issued Papal bull of Excommunication on the altar of Hagia Sophia during Saturday afternoon divine liturgy. Historians frequently describe the event as the start of the East–West Schism.
1232  The Spanish town of Arjona, Spain|Arjona declares independence and names its native Muhammad I of Granada|Muhammad ibn Yusuf as ruler. This marks the Muhammad's first rise to prominence; he would later establish the Nasrid dynasty|Nasrid Emirate of Granada, the last independent Muslim state in Spain.
1377  Richard II of England is crowned.
1661  The first banknotes in Europe are issued by the Swedish bank Stockholms Banco.
1790  The Washington, D.C.|District of Columbia is established as the capital of the United States after signature of the Residence Act.
1849  Antonio María Claret y Clará founds the Congregation of the Missionary Sons of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, popularly known as the Claretians in Vic, in the province of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
1910  John Robertson Duigan makes the first flight of the Duigan pusher biplane, the first aircraft built in Australia.
1915    First Order of the Arrow ceremony takes place and the Order of the Arrow is founded to honor American Boy Scouts who best exemplify the Scout Oath and Law.
1931  Emperor of Ethiopia|Emperor Haile Selassie signs the 1931 Constitution of Ethiopia|first constitution of Ethiopia.
1935  The world's first parking meter is installed in Oklahoma City|Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
1941  Joe DiMaggio hits safely for the 56th consecutive game, a streak that still stands as an Major League Baseball|MLB record.
1942  The Holocaust|Holocaust: Vel' d'Hiv Roundup (''Rafle du Vel' d'Hiv''): The government of Vichy France orders the mass arrest of 13,152 Jews who are held at the Vélodrome d'hiver|Winter Velodrome in Paris before deportation to Auschwitz concentration camp|Auschwitz.
1945    Manhattan Project: The Atomic Age begins when the United States Trinity (nuclear test)|successfully detonates a plutonium-based test nuclear weapon near Alamogordo, New Mexico.
1948    The storming of the cockpit of the ''Miss Macao'' passenger seaplane, operated by a subsidiary of the Cathay Pacific Airways, marks the first aircraft hijacking of a commercial plane.
1950  Chaplain–Medic massacre: American POWs are massacred by North Korean Army.
1951  King Leopold III of Belgium abdicates in favor of his son, Baudouin of Belgium|Baudouin I of Belgium.
1956  Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus closes its last \"Big Tent\" show in Pittsburgh|Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; due to changing economics all subsequent circus shows will be held in arenas.
1965  The Mont Blanc Tunnel linking France and Italy opens.
1969  Apollo program: ''Apollo 11'', the first Human spaceflight|mission to land astronauts on the Moon, is launched from the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral|Cape Kennedy, Florida.
1979  President of Iraq|Iraqi President Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr resigns and is replaced by Saddam Hussein.
1990    The Verkhovna Rada|Parliament of the Ukrainian SSR Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine|declares state sovereignty over the territory of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic|Ukrainian SSR.
2004  Millennium Park, considered Chicago's first and most ambitious early 21st-century architectural project, is opened to the public by Mayor of Chicago|Mayor Richard M. Daley.
