682  St Leo II begins his reign as Catholic Pope.
1186  Georgenberg Pact: Ottokar IV, Duke of Styria and Leopold V, Duke of Austria sign a heritage agreement in which Ottokar gives his duchy to Leopold and to his son Frederick I, Duke of Austria (Babenberg)|Frederick under the stipulation that Austria and Styria would henceforth remain undivided.
1498  Cesare Borgia, son of Pope Alexander VI, becomes the first person in history to resign the Cardinal (Catholic Church)|cardinalate; later that same day, King Louis XII of France names him Duke of Valentinois.
1560  The Catholic Church is overthrown and Protestantism is Scottish Reformation Parliament|established as the national religion in Kingdom of Scotland|Scotland.
1585    A first group of colonists sent by Sir Walter Raleigh under the charge of Ralph Lane lands in the New World to create Roanoke Colony on Roanoke Island, off the coast of present-day North Carolina.
1597  Islands Voyage: Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, and Sir Walter Raleigh set sail on an expedition to the Azores.
1723  Ioan Giurgiu Patachi becomes Bishop of Făgăraș and is festively installed in his position at the St. Nicolas Cathedral in Făgăraș, after being formally confirmed earlier by Pope Clement XI.
1740  Pope Benedict XIV, previously known as Prospero Lambertini, succeeds Clement XII as the 247th Pope.
1784  Classical composer Luigi Boccherini receives a pay rise of 12000 Spanish real|reals from his employer, the Infante Luis, Count of Chinchón.
1798  The Vietnamese Catholics report a Marian apparition in Quảng Trị, an event which is called Our Lady of La Vang.
1807  Robert Fulton's ''North River Steamboat'' leaves New York City for Albany, New York, on the Hudson River, inaugurating the first commercial steamboat service in the world.
1827 - Dutch King Willem I and Pope Leo XII sign concord
1866  The Grand Duchy of Baden announces her withdrawal from the German Confederation and signs a History of Baden-Württemberg|treaty of peace and alliance with Prussia.
1883  The first public performance of the Dominican Republic's national anthem, ''National Anthem of the Dominican Republic|Himno Nacional''.
1907  Pike Place Market, a popular tourist destination and registered historic district in Seattle, opened.
1908  ''Fantasmagorie (1908 film)|Fantasmagorie'', the first animated cartoon, created by Émile Cohl, is shown in Paris, France.
1945    The novella ''Animal Farm'' by George Orwell is first published.
1947  The Radcliffe Line, the border between the Dominion of India|Dominions of India and Dominion of Pakistan|Pakistan, is revealed.
1953  Substance dependence|Addiction: First meeting of Narcotics Anonymous takes place, in Southern California.
1958  ''Pioneer 0'', America's first attempt at lunar orbit, is launched using the first Thor-Able rocket and fails. Notable as one of the first attempted launches beyond Earth orbit by any country.
1970  Venera program: ''Venera 7'' launched. It will later become the first spacecraft to successfully transmit data from the surface of another planet (Venus).
1977  The Soviet icebreaker ''Arktika (1972 icebreaker)|Arktika'' becomes the first surface ship to reach the North Pole.
1978  ''Double Eagle II'' becomes first balloon (aeronautics)|balloon to cross the Atlantic Ocean when it lands in Miserey, France near Paris, 137 hours after leaving Presque Isle, Maine.
1991  Strathfield massacre: In Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, taxi driver Wade Frankum shoots seven people and injures six others before turning the gun on himself.
1998  Lewinsky scandal: US President Bill Clinton admits in taped testimony that he had an \"improper physical relationship\" with White House intern Monica Lewinsky; later that same day he admits before the nation that he \"misled people\" about the relationship.
2004  The National Assembly of Serbia unanimously adopts new state symbols for Serbia: Bože pravde becomes the new anthem and the Coat of arms of Serbia|coat of arms is adopted for the whole country.
2005  The first forced evacuation of Israeli settlement|settlers, as part of Israeli disengagement from Gaza, starts.
2008  American swimmer Michael Phelps becomes the first person to win eight gold medals at one Olympic Games.
