367  Gratian receives the title of ''Augustus (title)|Augustus'' under his father, Valentinian I.
1532  The Duchy of Brittany is Union of Brittany and France|united to the Kingdom of France.
1693  Date traditionally ascribed to Dom Pérignon (monk)|Dom Perignon's invention of champagne; it is not clear whether he actually invented champagne, however he has been credited as an innovator who developed the techniques used to perfect sparkling wine.
1701  Great Peace of Montreal between New France and First Nations is signed.
1789  France: members of the National Constituent Assembly (France)|National Constituent Assembly take an oath to end feudalism and abandon their Law of Privilege|privileges.
1790  A newly passed tariff act creates the ''United States Revenue Cutter Service|Revenue Cutter Service'' (the forerunner of the United States Coast Guard).
1821  ''The Saturday Evening Post'' is published for the first time as a weekly newspaper.
1854  The Flag of Japan|Hinomaru is established as the official flag to be flown from Japanese ships.
1863  Matica slovenská, Slovakia's public-law cultural and scientific institution focusing on topics around the Slovaks|Slovak nation, is established in Martin, Slovakia|Martin.
1924  Diplomacy#Diplomatic relations|Diplomatic relations between Mexico and the Soviet Union are established.
1936  List of Prime Ministers of Greece|Prime Minister of Greece Ioannis Metaxas suspends Hellenic Parliament|parliament and the Constitution of Greece|Constitution and establishes the 4th of August Regime.
1947  The Supreme Court of Japan is established.
1965  The Constitution of the Cook Islands comes into force, giving the Cook Islands self-governing status within New Zealand.
1977  President of the United States|U.S. President Jimmy Carter signs legislation creating the United States Department of Energy.
1984  The Republic of Upper Volta changes its name to Burkina Faso.
1987  The Federal Communications Commission rescinds the Fairness Doctrine which had required radio and television stations to present controversial issues \"fairly\".
1993  A federal judge sentences Los Angeles Police Department officers Stacey Koon and Laurence Powell to 30 months in prison for violating motorist Rodney King's Civil and political rights|civil rights.
1995  Operation Storm begins in Croatia.
2007  NASA's ''Phoenix (spacecraft)|Phoenix'' spacecraft is launched.
