275  In Rome (after the assassination of Aurelian), the Roman Senate|Senate proclaims Marcus Claudius Tacitus Roman emperor|Emperor.
762  Led by Muhammad al-Nafs al-Zakiyya, the Hasan ibn Ali|Hasanid branch of the Alids begins the Alid Revolt (762–63)|Alid Revolt against the Abbasid Caliphate.
1237  Kingdom of England|England and Kingdom of Scotland|Scotland sign the Treaty of York, establishing the location of their Anglo-Scottish border|common border.
1513  Spanish explorer Vasco Núñez de Balboa reaches what would become known as the Pacific Ocean.
1555  The Peace of Augsburg is signed in Augsburg by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor|Charles V and the princes of the Schmalkaldic League.
1690  ''Publick Occurrences Both Forreign and Domestick'', the first newspaper to appear in the Americas, is published for the first and only time.
1789  The United States Congress passes twelve amendments to the United States Constitution: The Congressional Apportionment Amendment (which was never ratified), the Twenty-seventh Amendment to the United States Constitution|Congressional Compensation Amendment, and the ten that are known as the United States Bill of Rights|Bill of Rights.
1790  Peking opera is born when the Four Great Anhui Troupes introduce Huiju|Anhui opera to Beijing in honor of the Qianlong Emperor's eightieth birthday.
1804  The Lakota people|Teton Sioux (a subdivision of the Lakota) demand one of the boats from the Lewis and Clark Expedition as a toll for allowing the expedition to move further upriver.
1868  The Imperial Russian steam frigate ''Russian frigate Alexander Nevsky|Alexander Nevsky'' is shipwrecked off Jutland while carrying Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich of Russia|Grand Duke Alexei of Russia.
1890  The United States Congress establishes Sequoia National Park.
1906  Leonardo Torres y Quevedo demonstrates the ''Telekino'', guiding a boat from the shore, in what is considered to be the first use of a remote control.
1912  Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism is founded in New York City.
1926  The international 1926 Slavery Convention|Convention to Suppress the Slave Trade and Slavery is first signed.
1955  The Royal Jordanian Air Force is founded.
1956  TAT-1, the first submarine transatlantic telephone cable system, is inaugurated.
1957  Little Rock Central High School|Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas, is Racial integration|integrated by the use of United States Army troops.
1962  The People's Democratic Republic of Algeria is formally proclaimed. Ferhat Abbas is elected President of Algeria|President of the provisional government.
1963  Alfred Denning, Baron Denning|Lord Denning releases the UK government's official report on the Profumo Affair.
1969  The charter establishing the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation is signed.
1970  Ceasefire between Jordan and the Fedayeen ends fighting triggered by four hijackings on September 6 and September 9|9.
1974  The first ulnar collateral ligament replacement surgery (Tommy John surgery) performed, on baseball player Tommy John.
1977  About 4,200 people take part in the first running of the Chicago Marathon.
1981  Belize joins the United Nations.
1983  Maze Prison escape: Thirty-eight IRA prisoners, armed with six handguns, hijack a prison meals lorry and smash their way out of HM Prison Maze|the Maze prison.
1992  NASA launches the ''Mars Observer'', a $511 million probe to Mars, in the first U.S. mission to the planet in 17 years. Eleven months later, the probe would fail.
2014  O'Hare International Airport|Chicago-O'Hare International Airport, in Chicago|Chicago, Illinois, regains title as List of busiest airports by passenger traffic|world's busiest airport from Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta|Atlanta, Georgia.
